# kickstarter-analysis
Performing analysis on kickstarter data to uncover trends 
### Challenge
Based on our analysis of the relationship between the stated goal and outcome of the campaigns, we observed that on average, campaigns with goals below $44999 has greater chances of success. Our sample included only data from the “plays” category to maximize comparability. We see from our trends chart that the percentage of failure peaked for campaigns with goals of $45000 to $49999. However, given that there are very few data points for campaigns with goals above $25000, we think that the implied trend above this break point is less reliable. Among the cohorts with at least 20 sample campaigns of the “plays” category, we note that the success rate for campaigns below $10000 are much higher (at 70%+) than the rest of the cohorts. Based on these observations, we think that a theater play campaign will have the best chances if its goal is set below $10000. Further analysis of the cohort via random sampling of a defined sample size from each of the cohorts could offer more insights into the likelihood of launching a successful theater play campaign given a stated goal. 
 
 
 
We also analyzed the relationship between campaign launch date and the rate of campaign success. We found that amongst our sample campaigns, those that were launched in May had the best outcome while those launched in December at the lowest success rate. We also observed that May is the most popular month for campaign launches for the theater campaign cohort in our data set. Additionally, our sample showed a steady decline in the amount (and rate) of successful campaigns from the month of May through September. This is in sharp contrast with the sharp increase in the number (and success rate) of campaigns from March to April. Since our analysis at this point is an aggregate through all years, we cannot draw any reliable conclusion on the possible seasonality of theater campaigns yet. However, we think that a year by year analysis could be useful to see if similar up/down trends exist across different years. 
 
